blog: August community gems (#2655)
iterative/dvc.org: content/blog/2021-08-31-aug-community-gems.md

---
title: August '21 Community Gems
date: 2021-08-31
description: |
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community.
  This month: DVC pipeline configs, working with remotes,
  file handling and more.
descriptionLong: |
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community.
  This month: DVC pipeline configs, working with remotes,
  file handling and more.
picture: 2021-08-31/gems-cover.png
author: milecia_mcgregor
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/august-21-community-gems/45342t5t4egrf4w
tags:
  - Community
  - Plots
  - Pipelines
  - CML
  - Git
---

### [Q: Are TOML files supported for storing model metrics and displaying them via `dvc metrics show`?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/865974923079319563)

Thanks for the question @naeljaneLiblikas!

DVC does not support TOML files for metrics. TOML files are only used for

> parameters.

Reviewer: :eyes: seems odd. Why the half-support?

Author: Should I open an issue to add TOML support for metrics?

Reviewer 2: Sure, if you want to open an issue and reference that discord message, that would be great!

### [Q: How can I use object storage as a data source for MLOps with DVC?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/866393535296176148)

You have a few options with DVC for this.

- Set up an external cache on your object storage
  bucket.[Check out this doc to learn more](https://dvc.org/doc/user-guide/managing-external-data#setting-up-an-external-cache)!

> - Track a large dataset in an external location without downloading it locally.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this to something like: "Track a large dataset in an external location to download later." Eventually, the dataset needs to be downloaded locally to be used, so I think this is tricky to explain without being misleading.

  [This doc will tell you more](https://dvc.org/doc/command-reference/add#example-transfer-to-remote-storage).

Great question @Ravi Kumar!

> ### [Q: Is there a recommended way to specify multiple pipelines in DVC?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/864230750325047316)

Reviewer: the way the question is written here ("specify multiple pipelines in DVC") is inconsistent with the answer "specify pipelines in multiple DVC yaml files." Seems one needs to be changed.

Reviewer 2: I think the recommendation is to keep each pipeline in a separate `dcv.yaml` file and is kind of explained in the last bullet. Maybe that needs to be moved up to the top?

Author: I made some updates here, so let me know what you think!

Reviewer 2: Looks good, although you might want to clarify that multiple `dvc.yaml` files are recommended _but not required_ to specify multiple pipelines.

> There are a few different ways to approach this.

Reviewer 2: Are these actually different ways to approach this? They seem more like explanation of different aspects of the same approach (using multiple `dvc.yaml` files).

- `dvc.yaml` files can be in any sub-directory or nested sub-directory in the
  project structure and DVC will find them.
- DVC will process them just the same as if they were one DVC file i.e.
  dependencies between stages in different `dvc.yaml` files are still respected.
- Each `dvc.yaml` file will have its own `dvc.lock` file in the same directory.
- Splitting a `dvc.yaml` file into multiple files is encouraged where there are
  clear logical groupings between stages. It avoids confusion, improves
  readability, and shortens commands by avoiding long paths preceding every
  filename.

If you want to see the rest of the explanation,

> [check out this PR we have up](https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/issues/2494).

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that the PR is for a user guide? Otherwise, it reads to me like the functionality may not exist yet and is still in a PR.

Please feel free to add a comment or emoji on this PR so we know how to
prioritize this content for you!

Thanks @Tups!

### [Q: Is there way to allow different pipelines to have common dependencies and outputs in DVC pipelines?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/867747202306146335)

Good question @vgodie!

It is possible to have overlapping dependencies, but not overlapping outputs.
Having overlapping outputs introduces uncertainty into DVC commands, like

> `dvc checkout`.

Reviewer: leaving aside implementation difficulties (with e.g. `dvc checkout`)... what would the logical use-case be of overlapping outputs?

> ### [Q: How does the CML runner functionality to restart workflows if it's been shut down by AWS (e.g. spot instances) work?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/862641924200857660)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### [Q: How does the CML runner restart workflows if it's been shut down by AWS (e.g. spot instances)?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/862641924200857660)
```

Reviewer: also again the question ("How does it work?") seems at adds with the answer ("Yes is works").

You shouldn't have to do anything. Spot instances sends a `SIGINT` that we
handle to restart the workflow. We have been supporting graceful shutdown by

> unregistering runers for a while now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
unregistering runners for a while now.
```

The main difference now is that we restart workflows with unfinished jobs.

> We know for sure this isn't working in Azure. Azure is not doing a graceful
> shutdown, but a shutdown now, even when stopping the instance within the Azure
> console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know for sure this isn't working in Azure. Azure does not do a graceful
shutdown -- even when stopping the instance within the Azure console.
```

is there an appropriate (preferably upstream) issue we can link to?

Thanks for such a good question @andee96!

### [Q: Can I change the endpoint defined here <https://github.com/iterative/cml/blob/master/src/utils.js#L56>? Or does `cml-publish` always save the artifacts on this endpoint?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/864444303169421322)

Good question @Nwp8nice!

If you use GitLab you can use the `--native` option to upload to GitLab instead.

It would be nice to be able to offer an alternative link so if you're

> interested, a PR would be awesome! :blush:

Reviewer: link to issue https://github.com/iterative/cml/issues/291

### [Q: Is CML used for creating the MLOps workflows, like Apache Airflow?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/866624571519664128)

This is a really good question @Ravi Kumar!

> CML relies on CI/CD engines like GitHub Actions or GitLab CI/CD, but doesn't
> replace them. It's just a lightweight wrapper and not a complete workflow
> ecosystem like Airflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CML is intended to augment existing CI/CD engines like GitHub Actions or
GitLab CI/CD, not replace them. It's a lightweight wrapper and not a complete
replacement workflow ecosystem like Airflow. We don't like reinventing working
wheels.
```

> ### [Q: Does CML have the ability to run long-run instances, e.g. can I run AWS instance via GitHub Actions that works more than 6 hours?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/866730530262351873)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### [Q: Does CML have the ability to cope with long-running instances, e.g. launching an AWS instance via GitHub Actions that lasts more than 72 hours?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/866730530262351873)
```

Reviewer 3: Users must also specify a higher job timeout via 
```
timeout-minutes: 5000
```
in their workflows to avoid the 6 hours limit

Reviewer: with a hyperlink to https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#jobsjob_idtimeout-minutes

> You can definitely run it for 6 hours. The GitHub limit is 72 hours for
> self-hosted runners and GitLab has no limit on self-hosted runners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the GitHub Actions limit of 72 hours is reached for self-hosted
runners, CML will handle restarting the Action and reconnecting to
the runner. Meanwhile, on GitLab there is no time limit to circumvent
for self-hosted runners.
```

CC @DavidGOrtega

Thanks @sergechuvakin!

---

https://media.giphy.com/media/l0IycQmt79g9XzOWQ/giphy.gif

> At our September Office Hours Meetup we will be do something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At our September Office Hours Meetup we will be doing something.
```

Either reads as v. mysterious or v. obvious :laughing:

Reviewer 2: 😆 Guessing you are still trying to figure this one out @flippedcoder and @jendefig?

Author: Yeah, we were still working on that. 😅 But I've got that updated now!

---
title: August '21 Community Gems
date: 2021-08-31
description: |

>   A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community.

Reviewer 4: is this description relevant?

  This month: DVC pipeline configs, working with remotes,
  file handling and more.
descriptionLong: |
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community.
  This month: DVC pipeline configs, working with remotes,
  file handling and more.
picture: 2021-08-31/gems-cover.png
author: milecia_mcgregor
commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/august-21-community-gems/45342t5t4egrf4w
tags:
  - Community
  - Plots
  - Pipelines
  - CML
  - Git
---

### [Q: Are TOML files supported for storing model metrics and displaying them via `dvc metrics show`?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/865974923079319563)

Thanks for the question @naeljaneLiblikas!

DVC does not support TOML files for metrics. TOML files are only used for
parameters.

> We do have an [open issue](https://github.com/iterative/dvc/issues/6402) for

Reviewer 4: ... to upvote or keep up ..

or

Please feel free to chime in so that we can prioritize it.

Reviewer 4: `TOML files are only used` -> `TOML files are can be used` or `TOML files are supported ..`

this so you can keep up with any updates.

> ### [Q: How can I use object storage as a data source for MLOps with DVC?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/485596304961962003/866393535296176148)

Reviewer 4: Unfortunately, I don't think this a good Q/A. Question sounds generic enough to provide a very different (simpler) answer - "use DVC remotes". Other answers are pretty advanced and/or optimizations. I would recommend replacing this cc @jorgeorpinel - why did we think this question is about these advanced cases? :)

Author: I replaced this Q/A with one about getting CSV files for the experiments table.

  clear logical groupings between stages. It avoids confusion, improves
  readability, and shortens commands by avoiding long paths preceding every
  filename.
- `dvc.yaml` files can be in any sub-directory or nested sub-directory in the
  project structure and DVC will find them.
- DVC will process them just the same as if they were one DVC file i.e.
  dependencies between stages in different `dvc.yaml` files are still respected.
- Each `dvc.yaml` file will have its own `dvc.lock` file in the same directory.

If you want to see the rest of the explanation,
[check out this user guide PR we have up](https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/issues/2494).
Please feel free to add a comment or emoji on this PR so we know how to
prioritize this content for you!

Thanks @Tups!

### [Q: Is there way to allow different pipelines to have common dependencies and outputs in DVC pipelines?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/563406153334128681/867747202306146335)

Good question @vgodie!

It is possible to have overlapping dependencies, but not overlapping outputs.
Having overlapping outputs introduces uncertainty into DVC commands, like
`dvc checkout`.

> Sometimes people want to have overlapping directory outputs (different stages

Reviewer 4: Could we provide an example? (for the sake of having some code blocks and/or images in this post - it looks a bit too "empty" at the moment?

Author: I'm not quite sure what to put here as a code block, but the new Q/A has a Python code block. Let me if you think that looks good enough. If not, I'll add some code in here somewhere. 🙂

that wrote many different files in the same directory). They might have a series
of stages that append to the same file. In this case, we suggest creating new
files and combining them in a final stage so they are consistently written in
the same order.

### [Q: How does the CML runner restart workflows if it's been shut down by AWS (e.g. spot instances)?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/862641924200857660)

You shouldn't have to do anything. Spot instances sends a `SIGINT` that we
handle to restart the workflow. We have been supporting graceful shutdown by
unregistering runners for a while now.

The main difference now is that we restart workflows with unfinished jobs.

> We know for sure this isn't working in Azure. Azure does not do a graceful

Reviewer 4: do we have a workaround? ticket? 

or consider removing this, since question is about AWS

Author: I removed it because the question was about AWS.

shutdown -- even when stopping the instance within the Azure console.

Thanks for such a good question @andee96!

> ### [Q: Can I change the endpoint defined here <https://github.com/iterative/cml/blob/master/src/utils.js#L56>? Or does `cml-publish` always save the artifacts on this endpoint?](https://discord.com/channels/485586884165107732/728693131557732403/864444303169421322)

Reviewer 4: make `here` a link (it will look better, no need to put a link explicitly like this)

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure we need a link to sources to be honest ... we can just rephrase it ... Could I change an end-point that is being used by the `clm-publish` command to save assets ... or something like this.

Good question @Nwp8nice!

If you use GitLab you can use the `--native` option to upload to GitLab instead.

It would be nice to be able to offer an alternative link so if you're
interested, a PR for [this issue](https://github.com/iterative/cml/issues/291)

> would be awesome! :blush:

Reviewer 4: :blush: is not rendered

---
title: August '21 Community Gems
date: 2021-08-31
description: |
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community.
  This month: separate DVC pipelines, working with CML,
  object storage as a data source, and more.
descriptionLong: |
  A roundup of technical Q&A's from the DVC community.
  This month: separate DVC pipelines, working with CML,

>   object storage as a data source, and more.

Reviewer 4: object storage - is it still part of the Q/A this time?

Author: Ope! Just cleaned that up.

> picture: 2021-08-31/gems-cover.png

Reviewer 4: we need to update it before we merge I think

Author: Yep! We're just waiting for Roman to send the image. :)

Reviewer 5: Hi. So is this image the only thing pending? Should we then approve @shcheklein ? Thanks

Reviewer 6: Compressed Image is up.  So I believe this is ready to go, though date is for tomorrow.  @flippedcoder @jorgeorpinel @shcheklein

author: milecia_mcgregor

> commentsUrl: https://discuss.dvc.org/t/august-21-community-gems/45342t5t4egrf4w

Reviewer 4: we need the right link it looks like

Author: Got that link up.
